In one version of the myth of the ancient Greeks,
the kingdom of Crete defeats Athens during the war and forces its inhabitants to make regular sacrifices,
to remind you of your power.
Athenian boys and girls are taken as a tribute and locked in a vast labyrinth,
where they are hunted down and devoured by the monstrous Minotaur.
These cruel crimes continue until one day a hero appears in Athens,
a young man named Teres,
who voluntarily takes the place of one of the convicted boys.
Sounds familiar?
Yes, because Suzanne Collins, author of popular books "The Hunger Games",
she consciously drew on ancient legends when she wrote her series.
Young Theseus proves that he is a hero:
With the help of the king's daughter, he finds his way through the maze and kills the Minotaur.
Ends the time of trouble and no one has to die anymore.
In ancient Rome, we find a similar story that may sound familiar to fans of the "Hunger Games."
Gladiator Spartacus is forced as a slave to fight for life and death in the arena
in a spectacle to entertain the political elite and calm the masses.
However, he refuses to adhere to the rules of a macabre game.
He leads other slaves to an uprising against the Roman Empire in the first century BC,
and his name becomes a symbol of shouting for freedom.
Katniss Everdeen, the protagonist of the death games trilogy, inherits both Theseus and Spartacus's scepter.
It becomes part of the struggle for freedom, part of the political revolution and a hero of coercion.
Her world has been updated to symbolize our modern fears,
her government uses advanced technology to spy on its citizens,
and even attacking them;
propaganda is combined with the television show
- ultimately, history affects us with such strength, because it reaches for a fight that has been taking place for thousands of years.
As a professor of intellectual history who specializes in the tradition of dystopia,
I think it is important to consider why these stories have such a good effect on us.
Stories about Theseus, Spartacus and Katniss,
they all proclaim the same story of rulers using coercive measures
and individuals appearing against them.
These heroes do not want to become new tyrants themselves.
They just want to be able to decide their own lives and let others do the same.
We find similar heroes in many other episodes of history,
we talk about them in our films, novels and songs.
They move our hearts, because the struggle between freedom and power remains a very real part of our world.
In every place, people long for the freedom to pursue their own goals and dreams.
These stories are not just entertainment.
It is a reflection of who and what we are.
Translation: seeker, for the Libertarian Party.
Visit: partialibertarianska.org